# Roadmap by Andrew Lukyanenko

There is one skill which will get you very far. If you do not have it yet, I urge you to develop it. This skill is… formulating thoughts, searching for information, finding it and understanding it. Seriously! Some people cannot formulate thoughts, some are unable to find solutions to the most basic questions, some do not know how to properly create google queries. This is a basic and necessary skill, and you must perfect it!
* 		Choose a programming language and study it. Usually it would be Python or R. I highly recommend choosing Python. I won’t list the reasons, because there are a lot of arguments about R/Python out there already, I personally think Python is more versatile and useful. Spend 2–4 weeks on learning the language, so that you can do basic things. Get a general understanding of the libraries used, such as pandas/matplotlib or tydiverse/ggplot2.
* 		Go through the ML course by Andrew NG. It is old, but it gives a great foundation. It could be useful to complete the tasks in Python/R, but it is not necessary.
* 		Now take one more good course in ML (or a couple of them). For R users I recommend Analytics Edge, for Python users — mlcourse.ai. If you know Russian language, this course on Coursera is also great. In my opinion mlcourse.ai is the best among these three. Why? It provides good theory and some tough assignments, which could already be enough. However, it also teaches people to take part in Kaggle competitions and make standalone projects. This makes it great for practice.
* 		Study SQL. In most companies data is kept in relational databases so that you will need to be able to get it. Make yourself comfortable with using select, group by, CTE, joins and other things.
* 		Try to work with raw data to get the experience of working with dirty datasets.
* 		While the previous point may not be necessary, this one is mandatory: complete at least 1 or 2 complete projects. Perform a detailed analysis and modelling of some dataset, or create an app, for example. The main thing to learn is how to create an idea, plan its implementation, get data, work with it and bring the project to completion.
* 		Go to Kaggle, study kernels and take part in competitions.
* 		Join a good community. I have joined ods.ai — a community of 15k+ active Russian data scientists (by the way, this community is open to data scientista from any countries) and it helped me a lot.

