# Tatvum Staging Server

172.104.166.71

C7y0g3n root MySQL

What we are looking for in this file is the parameter that sets cgi.fix_pathinfo. This will be commented out with a semi-colon (;) and set to "1" by default.
This is an extremely insecure setting because it tells PHP to attempt to execute the closest file it can find if the requested PHP file cannot be found. This basically would allow users to craft PHP requests in a way that would allow them to execute scripts that they shouldn't be allowed to execute.
We will change both of these conditions by uncommenting the line and setting it to "0" like this:
/etc/php/7.0/fpm/php.ini
cgi.fix_pathinfo=0

## These are instructions on PHP

We need to make some changes to this file for our site.
* First, we need to add index.php as the first value of our index directive so that files named index.php are served, if available, when a directory is requested.
* We can modify the server_name directive to point to our server's domain name or public IP address.
* For the actual PHP processing, we just need to uncomment a segment of the file that handles PHP requests by removing the pound symbols (#) from in front of each line. This will be the location ~\.php$ location block, the included fastcgi-php.conf snippet, and the socket associated with php-fpm.
* We will also uncomment the location block dealing with .htaccess files using the same method. Nginx doesn't process these files. If any of these files happen to find their way into the document root, they should not be served to visitors.

The changes that you need to make are in red in the text below:
/etc/nginx/sites-available/default
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;

    root /var/www/html;
    index index.php index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

    server_name server_domain_or_IP;

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
    }

    location ~ \.php$ {
        include snippets/fastcgi-php.conf;
        fastcgi_pass unix:/run/php/php7.0-fpm.sock;
    }

    location ~ /\.ht {
        deny all;
    }
}
When you've made the above changes, you can save and close the file.
Test your configuration file for syntax errors by typing:
* sudo nginx -t

If any errors are reported, go back and recheck your file before continuing.
When you are ready, reload Nginx to make the necessary changes:
* sudo systemctl reload nginx

## Step 5: Create a PHP File to Test Configuration

Your LEMP stack should now be completely set up. We can test it to validate that Nginx can correctly hand .php files off to our PHP processor.
We can do this by creating a test PHP file in our document root. Open a new file called info.php within your document root in your text editor:
* sudo nano /var/www/html/info.php

Type or paste the following lines into the new file. This is valid PHP code that will return information about our server:
/var/www/html/info.php
<?php
phpinfo();
When you are finished, save and close the file.
Now, you can visit this page in your web browser by visiting your server's domain name or public IP address followed by /info.php:
http://server_domain_or_IP/info.php
You should see a web page that has been generated by PHP with information about your server:

If you see a page that looks like this, you've set up PHP processing with Nginx successfully.
After verifying that Nginx renders the page correctly, it's best to remove the file you created as it can actually give unauthorized users some hints about your configuration that may help them try to break in. You can always regenerate this file if you need it later.
For now, remove the file by typing:
* sudo rm /var/www/html/info.php

## Conclusion

You should now have a LEMP stack configured on your Ubuntu 16.04 server. This gives you a very flexible foundation for serving web content to your visitors.

